if you're a podcast host or even just a social
media Creator and you've been struggling to
increase your views your downloads your lessons
and your engagement you're going to want to
listen to today's episode and that's because
there is absolutely nothing more powerful
in the world of online entrepreneurship and
social media marketing than having a strong
sense of community when you have a strong
Community the sales and engagement take care
of themselves you don't have to worry and
constantly strive for more more and more because
your community is that excited plugged in
and engaged themselves there are so many benefits
to building a strong community on social media
and especially in the world of podcasting
but to be totally honest we haven't done a
great job here with the build your tribe show
of building a strong enough Community don't
get me wrong we love you we love our engaged
listeners and we know that we have plenty
of listeners that's why we're a top 10 marketing
podcast but we could do a much better job
of building that sense of community and I
could go through an endless list of benefits
as to why building a community it matters
and is so important but I think you get it
and so in today's episode my mom's going to
talk to you about how you can build this strong
Community she's done it very successfully
in a few of her other podcasts and businesses
and so I'm going to let her take it away and
talk about how you can build a stronger sense
of community particularly within your podcast
so obviously you've tuned into this episode
because you have a podcast otherwise why would
you be interested in growing your community
I too have I actually have two podcasts I
have one called the schlain show and this
one that I co-host with my son Brock a build
you tribe and one of my favorite things about
having a podcast is the self-reflection that
comes from it obviously I'm always thinking
about processing things that I do in my own
life with the chalene show because it's about
life but this show is about business and it's
always helping me to Up level my business
because I've got to do the research that's
involved to create the show don't you love
that about podcasting I freaking love it like
I feel like it makes me a big a better business
owner by having a business and marketing podcast
in preparation for this episode wow did I
have an eye-opening realization that I've
done a lot to grow I forgot to put my other
earring I've done a ton to grow the community
for the chalene show I don't think I've done
I don't think we have done anything to grow
the community for build your tribe I can't
believe it how have I missed this essential
piece of growing this show so while I know
I need to do an episode specifically about
show growth and all the different ways you
can grow a show and we've done many of those
things for build your tribe one of the most
essential critical things we haven't done
for build your tribe is work on growing our
community so today I'm going to share with
you what I've been doing to grow my community
on the chalene show and not only am I sharing
these things with you I'm also taking them
to heart and realizing these are some of the
things we need to put into practice when it
comes to build your tribe number one the biggest
is allowing people to connect as part of a
community so that you aren't the only voice
that you are the person who's assembling and
bringing people together and allowing them
to make that connection of like-minded people
people who listen to build your tribe are
new entrepreneurs people who want to start
a side hustle people who are growing their
business from all stages and ages of Business
Development I want those people to meet each
other I also find that the people who listen
to build your tribe are really interested
in authentic marketing they they don't like
the phony stuff they like it real they like
that we talk about our mistakes they are oftentimes
people who are easily distracted have a lot
of different interests and varied ways that
they like to create additional streams of
income and so so it's great to know that you
could meet people who are a lot like you just
by connecting with build your tribe two of
the most important things you must do when
it comes to building your community number
one is creating a private Facebook group this
is a place where people can join and they
can share ideas with each other I mean how
many times have you listened to an episode
I'm not saying necessarily this show but of
any podcast and thought to yourself I really
want to have a conversation with somebody
about this or I've got some questions or I
have an opinion that differs from the host
all right I'd like to add to this discussion
or ask additional questions I know that was
true it is true of me for many of the podcasts
that I listen to and it's why I created a
private Facebook group for the chalene show
and it's why we will be creating a private
Facebook group soon I'm not going to announce
it today because I haven't done it yet but
we're going to create a private Facebook group
for build your tribe so you can connect with
like-minded entrepreneurs the next and most
I think important step moving forward like
2023 and and Beyond well actually the best
time to have done this was probably three
years ago and that is to start a YouTube channel
we find statistically speaking people love
to connect under videos it's topical they
can reference the minute Mark during which
they want to comment on a particular segment
everybody has access to it oftentimes you're
landing on this page or maybe you're listening
to a podcast on Apple or Spotify and there's
there's really no place to comment I mean
I hope that Spotify changes as soon they're
going to need to and and frankly so is Apple
soon because YouTube is now dominating when
it comes to being discovered for your podcast
so to be completely transparent I think again
we've for both of my shows I've made a mistake
by knowing this is where people discover podcasts
YouTube that's what I mean by this place um
but but being reluctant to it like telling
myself stories that oh it's going to be too
hard oh that means I have to get into hair
and makeup oh that means there's editing and
instead what I should have done is just bit
the bullet and said to myself I'm recording
anyways I don't have to be all cutified I
don't have to even remember to put my earrings
in I need to create a YouTube channel because
this is where people like to listen it's not
necessarily even that people like to watch
podcasts on YouTube that's true for some but
a lot of us are just listening to podcasts
and this is how we're discovering great content
so if you haven't yet done this and I know
we've done quite a few episodes in the last
like month really trying to encourage people
to do that that's because I don't want you
to make the same mistake that we made and
and wait too long to create your YouTube channel
the third and most I think powerful way to
create Community is to host community events
so this is something I've been doing pretty
regularly for the chalene show and it's it's
remarkable how cool and how powerful it is
when your community can come together and
get to know each other so we just hosted a
chalene show Meetup here in Miami and we've
done quite a few around the country we've
done one in Dallas Orange County um Indiana
Michigan I think we've done one in Toledo
we've done a bunch of them and I've got to
get into the habit of doing them more often
and I really feel like now I've got a system
down before I I would get kind of nervous
about it because I was like oh I don't want
to be the center of attention how do I get
people to get to know each other the whole
point of a meet up is for people to connect
and get to know each other and if they're
the only thing they have in common is me my
fear was that when people would show up they
would just like kind of wait to talk to me
versus getting to know each other well I have
a great book they'd like to recommend to you
I will put a link to it below in our show
notes the author is Nick Gray and the book
is entitled The two-hour cocktail party how
to build big relationships with small Gatherings
now this doesn't mean you have to throw a
cocktail party but what's great about this
book is that he literally spells out what
the flow needs to feel like so that you can
avoid that awkward feeling where people don't
know what to do don't know how to they don't
know quite how to make that happen especially
if you're talking about people who are introverted
or shy a lot of people experience social anxiety
and we we just did one for the chalene show
so let me share with you just briefly what
this looks like first and foremost you want
about a month to announce people that you're
going to be doing this in fact you could announce
it even further than that you can announce
it six months out if you want but you really
want to start pushing and promoting one specific
location about a month prior then ask people
to RSVP you can create an event right that's
what we did initially in Eventbrite and once
there's a price maybe there isn't a price
associated with it I'll just tell you how
weeded are so we contracted a venue first
I had an idea of how many people were going
to be attending and I told them in advance
what the cost would be because I knew I wanted
to provide food alcohol and a nice venue where
I could kind of control the environment you
can certainly do a meet up if you're just
getting started with your show and you're
you know maybe you're hoping like five people
show up which is great in the city that you're
hosting this well in that case you could probably
do it around a big enough table or a smaller
meeting room in a restaurant but for us because
I knew we would have at least 40 or 50 people
even on short notice like we only promoted
it for five days but there's been times where
we've had like bigger venues like we've had
over 300 people for meetups my point is this
depending upon the size of your group that
will determine what type of venue you need
to have we knew that ours was going to be
associated with the cost so you've got two
choices you can either ask your community
to um pay for a ticket or you can pay for
it like think of it as a cost of building
Community this is my personal opinion if you
host a free event you're going to get tons
of people like triple the number who will
say that they're coming but if they haven't
put down even like five dollars to come on
the day of people just don't show people have
social anxiety something comes up and they
just don't show so I'm a really big fan of
you know the people who are really interested
in coming maybe want to have a couple of glasses
of wine or some appetizers they're going to
help pay for the venue and so that's what
we did we first told people this is what it's
going to cost we charged forty dollars sorry
forty five dollars for this Meetup and we
provided um amazing food Greek food uh which
was catered by nude Peta in Miami shout out
to them and then we also provided uh red wine
white wine and champagne and a beautiful venue
that overlooked the ocean here in Miami once
we did that we set up an Eventbrite and people
were then encouraged to go and buy Reserve
their space Reserve their ticket again in
hindsight the best case scenarios if you're
going to promote this and start taking tickets
if you will or allowing people to buy their
tickets at least two to three weeks in advance
I don't think you need to make tickets go
on sale earlier than that but it's best if
you can promote it further in advance then
we told people what to expect I I know that
people listen to podcasts tend to you know
be self-learners they a lot of people who
listen to podcasts are are introverted and
I'm really over generalizing but I guess I'm
thinking of myself so I wanted to assure people
like don't worry this is going to be fun even
if you're an introvert even if you're shy
I promise even if you show up and you know
no one you're gonna leave with some great
connections and you're gonna feel comfortable
and you're gonna have a great time now if
I'm going to deliver on that promise I had
to figure out how do I coordinate an event
so that people in this community actually
felt that so here's what we did first of all
when people showed up I'm just going to run
through the eye itinerary are you ready you're
in luck here we go okay so when people showed
up they each got a name tag the name tag had
a number so that eventually when we did a
couple different activities I could say okay
I need ones twos and threes over here on this
side I need fours fives and six over on this
side it made it really easy next we gave them
about 10 minutes before I got there because
I didn't want the focus to be on the podcast
host so people were encouraged the second
they got there there's the first person that
shows up and immediately after there's a second
person right and that's the deadliest most
awkward time so you really have to have activities
planned in those first couple of minutes so
that people don't feel that awkwardness right
so the second people showed up the first person
was told okay so here's your assignment um
go introduce yourself to this other person
and your objective is to figure out what the
two of you both have in common with the show
host that's easy that's fun right like so
it could be something as simple as um chalene
owns has a dog and I own a dog but it allows
them to get to know each other then figure
out what you you know each other's names where
you live you know ask each other questions
and then as each new person shows up you invite
them over to the circle this takes probably
the first eight to ten minutes not a lot of
people are going to show up that early but
a lot of them will probably half are going
to show up pretty close to on time as the
host you want to show up like 10 maybe 15
minutes after this mixer begins so that they
are already comfortable the fact that they're
there to get to know each other then when
I walked in I immediately took the floor and
said hey I'm so glad you guys are here I gave
them a proper welcome hello and by the way
you don't have to write any of this down I'm
going to put it on our blog so you can go
to chalene.com and you'll be able to click
on our blog and actually see the itinerary
that I created in Google Sheets and you can
copy it exactly if you'd like so the first
thing I did was told them hey I'm sure you
know thank you so much for being here acknowledged
everyone who showed up told them how excited
it was and here's what you can expect I told
them we're going to do some activities that
allow you to connect with each other y'all
know what probably way too much about me and
the show Etc but I want you to get to know
each other I want you to leave here with some
connections and maybe having made a new friend
or just a contact of someone who's like-minded
and shares many of your interests okay and
the way we're gonna do this is I'm going to
have some activities so whenever I what I
did is I whistled I would recommend you either
bring a whistle or a blowhorn because the
second you get people talking like the room
goes deafeningly loud and when you try to
stop them to move to the next activity they
just don't even it is like you are a first
grade teacher you're a first grade teacher
substitute and you got the wild class you
know what I'm saying they're like we're not
listening to you so I Whistle I can whistle
really loud so I would whistle and every time
I Whistle they knew that there was a new activity
so after I welcomed everybody the next thing
I did was introduced those people who were
hosting it so I introduced our event coordinator
as well as um Alexia from nude Peta who was
doing our catering if you don't have anyone
to introduce at a minimum you could probably
introduce players who are on your team like
hey here's our podcast editor or here's our
podcast engineer or here's my co-host and
you know just again thanking people for being
there then you want to gather everybody together
and do a group photo if you've got a really
huge group you know there might be some planning
that's involved in this for us we just had
one person take the photo on their iPhone
had everybody back up far enough another thing
that you could do is just break people up
into groups if you got a big or a huge group
of people again you can use their name tags
here everyone look at your numbers if I I
need the one one twos and threes over here
you're gonna do a little group photo and then
and then you as the host are going to be in
each one of those photos just have one person
take those photos on their iPhone just one
person so that things move quickly and you
tell everyone all of these photos will be
uploaded to Dropbox later and because you've
registered you'll be sent that link and you'll
also be able to upload your own photos if
you like after the group photo then we did
something that's kind of like speed dating
so I had people we created two groups okay
so half the people on this side half people
on the side once we split the room in half
then I split each half into halfs again so
there's two rows here two rows here of the
two rows you would face one person so you're
standing directly across from a complete stranger
and you had a minute and 30 seconds to go
back and forth asking questions getting to
know each other including your names anything
else you want to share and then the two of
you had to discuss a question that I gave
them okay you had a minute 30 at the minute
30 Mark I would blow a whistle and then one
side of the line move down one so every time
the whistle blew you had a new person a new
person by the end of the activity you had
met 10 or more new people now not everyone
needs to meet everyone you know there's going
to be some free time but this was just to
get that started so that people had they're
almost like forced to mix fast mix fast and
move on we've all been to networking events
where you get stuck with like one person you're
like I met like two people you know what I
mean so this was an amazing idea again I got
this all from Nick Gray's Book and so each
person would move after a minute 30 seconds
and not only did they have to exchange information
about each other but they had to answer like
a simple question here's some of the questions
that I would tell them uh the first one was
what is your love language and how do you
show love to other people do you consider
next then when I blew the whistle the next
question might have been um do you consider
yourself an introvert or an extrovert or somewhere
in between if you could spend a day with in
someone else's shoes who would it be and why
didn't matter if they were celebrity or someone
in your you know family um so just you know
simple questions you could use chat GPT to
come up with some interesting ones or just
things that you you find interesting you'd
like for them to ask of each other we did
this for about 25 minutes and I I feel like
they would have liked to continue doing it
but we broke it up and said okay now free
time I want to invite everybody over to get
you know freshen up your drink uh get an appetizer
you know finish up a conversation you were
having and we let them have free time for
about 10-15 minutes then I made another announcement
said okay shortly we're gonna sit down and
I'm gonna do a q a anything that you've ever
wanted to ask me that I maybe didn't answer
on the show or you want me to go into further
depth or just like a personal question that
you have or advice or anything of that nature
we're gonna do that in just a few minutes
so I want you to be thinking about that maybe
even write it down so that you don't forget
if somebody else has something similar um
and so then we waited a few minutes let everybody
kind of you know grab a drink and we moved
everybody over into an area where I could
sit up on just a stool and some most people
were standing a few sitting in the chairs
and couches that we had assembled and uh I
just let them do q a that was really fun and
I think that if there's one thing I would
do differently for a podcast Meetup I would
probably make that section longer so again
use the book as your guide but this was a
chance really when someone's asking a question
remember this is my opinion it's not because
they're super curious to know your answer
it's their moment to be seen by you I mean
they listen to you they feel like they know
you right and and they do if if you're a really
authentic podcaster you're sharing your truths
your you know people know what you think what
you feel they know your voice they spent sometimes
hours years with you they know you this is
their Opportunity by asking that specific
question remember that that that's their moment
to be seen you know so try to make sure that
you ask them to repeat their name acknowledge
them maybe ask some kind of a follow-up question
and I'm curious why you asked that or um is
this something you have experienced and then
go into your answer of course but I guess
the takeaway I got from that is um that was
my moment to really connect with them depending
on the size of your group you may or may not
be able to take photos with everyone of course
people love that you know if you can that's
just a great way to build community and encourage
them to take photos with each other so if
there's anything I would also do differently
I would say you know if you met someone here
that you connected with you know grab them
and get a photo before you leave um because
what happened is you know not everyone got
to take a photo with me because I I got caught
up in talking to different groups and I I
could sense that there were some people off
to the side they were like oh man I would
have really liked to get a photo it just depends
on the size of your group if in fact you can
organize that I can tell you from personal
experience it's tough I I don't like if if
there's more than 40 people I do not like
doing one-on-one photos because inevitably
you end up cutting people off you know if
you're taking a photo with someone you just
feel rude to say like okay thank you next
you know this is that person's chance to meet
you so they're going to want to tell you a
story they're going to want to tell you the
impact that you've had on their life or how
you've helped their business or whatever it
is that your podcast is about and you feel
really rude saying like Okay sorry I gotta
get a picture of the next person so I hate
doing them listen I've been had to do photo
lines because of you know Fitness videos etc
for probably 10 years and I absolutely hated
it I felt like the person who was getting
their photo taken with me felt jilted they
didn't get their moment so here's what I love
doing I love doing Paparazzi style photos
and I'm going to share with you a couple of
examples so when I have a big Gathering I
will oftentimes hire a photographer which
you can find there's now there's um apps where
you can find local photographers who are available
for an hour and you it's very very low cost
or you can hire a friend who's got an iPhone
and just will do this for you and what I would
do is I would tell everyone right away like
there's no way we can get a photo with each
and every one of us but I want you to have
this photo and I want you to have pictures
of other people who are here and I don't want
to be one of those like cheesy like hi here
I am with a lanyard with my this person who
I don't know like let's get some photos that
it actually looks like we hang out and you
know we're having a good time because we are
R so when I run over to your group and say
okay guys smile I want you to like we're I'm
going to tell you a joke and I need you to
like really laugh because it makes for a great
photo everybody looks better when they're
laughing and so what I do is I run from group
to group to group you know they're just all
talking and networking and it's very impromptu
where I'm gonna run so it's kind of funny
and it's fun and you don't get caught up in
an awkward conversation with just one person
and because it's fun and light like that people
don't often get into like a really deep sad
conversation which otherwise it happens and
it's so hard to like shift your mood when
you're doing a meet and greet and it's emotional
you know what I'm saying so I love this idea
here's some examples of photos from past events
where we've done this everyone loves these
photos they look way better on social media
nobody wants a post no one wants to engage
with the post on social media that's like
you with your favorite podcast host like who
does that help nobody but like these photos
are fun and they're exciting and it just looks
like such a good time and not to mention these
are great photos to use for your Meetup event
promotion right and you can post them to your
Facebook group to improve Community there's
a million and one ways to improve community
and I'm going to research this even further
because this is a community I'm determined
to grow here build your tribe because you
guys are you're important you have a lot in
common with each other and I want you to be
able to meet up with each other I want to
feel connected to you and this is my personal
vow that we're going to do a better job of
building Community how did I miss this here
on build your tribe hey thanks for listening
it's my goal to be brief to be bright to make
it fun and then be done y'all we're done see
you soon [Music]
[Music]
foreign [Music]